Hi Ana Dustin.
Welcome back to the smartest program every day.
You will not believe your eyes.
You've heard this before?
It's usually like clicking on a title tag to make you watch an online video
Or read a stupid article.
But are there situations when you really can not believe your eyes?
Make this video as big as you can on the screen
And we will try.
Place your head as close to the screen as you can not see the picture
It's a beacon over an island but I've turned colors.
I want you to focus your eyes on the top of the lighthouse and not move them
Give up my brother
Mind this island off the coast of Tasmania.
[seagulls]
Well I'm about to reverse the picture again but I want you to keep focusing on the lighthouse.
are you ready?
here we are.
From the corner of your eye you can see a pale blue sky and a deep blue royal sea with little green grass patches on the island.
Now, take your eyes and move them to the edge of the island.
Do you see that? There is no color in this picture.
It's a black and white image.
Your mind just made up the color that was not there.
Do you believe your eyes?
By the way, just in case you are curious
This is what the original picture looked like.
Well, I just show you a black and white picture
And why your mind saw something like that.
what happens?
Is something going on with your eye?
Or your mind?
Because we all know that it may be the optic nerve that connects the two.
Let us continue the investigation a bit.
A few years ago I saw this video on the Internet
At first it looks just like a neat little light toy.
But my mind saw something in a different way.
I realized for the first time that I literally could not believe my eyes.
Not that I did not understand what was happening,
But I knew that what I was watching did not actually exist.
As soon as I watched this video it was very clear to me that the dude that made this
He was a genius.
The bad news is though,
Hundreds of miles live in the desert.
So I'm in a kind of haggard hotel
Wah, I do not want to say hapless.
Have you ever seen someone do something really wonderful on the Internet
And I wanted to meet them?
Well this is kinda what happened here.
This is Greg.
- Welcome
- And Greg has a very interesting tool that you have made?
But what are we gonna call it?
- That's what we gonna call it. the device.
- Have you designed this PCB?
- I did.
- Do you fill it?
Also there are many small chips out there, but ..
- You're a geek man.
- Yes I know. [Laugh]
It gets easier.
- Since when did not take to fill the board?
- It takes about an hour and a half.
- Can you do it all in an hour and a half?
- Yeah.
- Yes but you can change the water pump on the Chevrolet pickup 1990?
- [Laugh]
- So those are the bulbs right?
- Yes they're red green RGB blue LEDs.
- that's cool.
Now how are you controlling it?
- Thus these lamps are mounted on the circuit board which mounted on the DC motor.
If you apply the power to the DC motor, it spins.
If my time is just right, I can basically light up any LED
Anywhere on the circuit that I want, as we can see here.
- So you created these bitmaps and then uploaded them
Through some of the programs you wrote?
- Yes, so this is a 63 bitmap by 63 pixels,
Basically I'm taking it and there actually is
Infrared sensor on screen that can receive data.
- Oh look at it.
Smarter every day.
A little greeting.
How did you do that?
Did you carry it, or ..
You can do that day was not for you.
- Yes in fact I just created that image
Right before being sent to meet you.
- This is amazing.
Ok so, here's the deal.
I asked you about this because I wanted to do it.
I wanted to use this high speed camera
Let's look at what you've got here.
This is the Phantom Miro we use here.
This is the Miro 320S, and we setup will work ..
What is the update rate on a microcontroller?
- Or is it too fast. It's spinning in about 25 revolutions every second.
- Within that it updates 256 times.
So we are looking at at a rate of 200 microseconds that the bulbs get updated.
- OK Up to a thousand frames per second is not fast enough, is what you tell me.
- No.
- OK.
Well, well let's figure out what frame rate we need to hit in order to understand what's going on here.
- What do we call these? Are these pixels?
The reason it's not really like a box thing like cartesians,
It's kind of like a bracket ..
- Right, it's kind of like a pixel arc.
- Well, what do we call it?
- The arxel.
- Arxel .. like that. We're gonna go with it.
To what extent does the LED bar travel per person arxel as you call it?
- It's about a half degree.
- If it was only going 1-2 degrees, then why is my mind still felt that light
All the time it's around?
For it is only one 360 ​​sweep, but keep it dark.
According to the high-speed camera,
Which I had to crank up to 5500 frames per second,
This is what actually happens.
check it out.
Those are points, or arxels as Greg likes to call them
Is a kind of flipping all over the place.
Most of the image is dead space.
So why not your mind make that picture?
To understand why the brain sees something is not there
I found a man who studies this kind of thing
This is what published more than 130 different papers on similar topics.
OK I am in very bad Skype contact with Dr. Stuart Anstis
Who is a genius at the University of California at San Diego
And what does Dr. Anstis study?
[British University] I study visual perception, especially visual illusions
Which tells us about the normal processes of vision,
How the eyes send information to the brain.
- that's cool. It is clear that your tone makes it very clear
You have to know exactly what you are talking about because I am
Expect nothing less than a person studying visual perception.
So I want to understand why my eyeball is witnessing something where I know there is no light.
Why do I see that?
- It is because of continuous vision, which means that the eye averages what you see during a short period of time.
It's similar to a camera where you have a long exposure time,
This will give you more light coming,
The sensitivity is greater, but you have a slower response.
So anything moving gets blurry out.
- What is the difference in time from the moment the LED is illuminated
So my eyes record that light is there?
There must be a delay time there.
What is that?
- that the time delay varies greatly, scale and ten times,
Anything 10-100 milliseconds.
- According to Dr. Anstis there are two things going on,
Let's look at it.
Let us pretend that we have LED flashing
We want to look at the brain response to that LED.
First of all said there is a delay,
So when the LED comes for the first time in our brain will not
We immediately see the vision, and it will take some limited amount of time later.
Second, the eye averages what you see during a short period of time.
Think about it.
If we have a moving average, this means that our vision has a kind of inertia to it.
It works like this.
Where the average comes along and is exposed to those LED flash, it starts to increase.
As the light says away, the moving medium starts to slope down the back.
Also comes the light again that starts to average to go up again,
Instead of having gaps that are completely dark, we have this nice tub at the bottom.
So we have a continuous vision even though there is no light to see at that time.
Let's look back at that photo by Mo Mo before with all the flashing bulbs.
Now, let's add this average time of light and see what the picture looks like.
check it out.
How wonderful is that?
It looks exactly like what our eyes see.
At what rate you expect I will resign seeing a unified image
But would I start to see like a tail pull across the screen?
- Well if the average revolution time is less than one then you're going to see the gap.
But suppose as you say, the fan goes around at 1/25 of a second, that is 40 milliseconds.
- Get it now.
Do you understand?
think about it.
Greg wheel rotates at 25 frames per second,
This has to do with the moving average time of the human eye.
This is why this video is at least 25,
It's actually 30 frames per second.
If not, I would see flickering of the picture.
What seems like a shortage in our eyes
It is actually what pleases things and makes the world work smoothly for us.
that's awesome.
If people watch this video students in your class
What do you want them to know about Greg Wheel and Persistence?
- [laughing] Well I would say that each system has got a limited time decision
The eye has an engineering problem trading time resolution against light sensitivity.
In fact they got the kind of handles inside which this relationship can be changed trade-off automatically.
The eye is in many ways much smarter than the camera.
It's a beautiful piece of engineering.
- Well thank you very much sir, I really appreciate your time.
- Thank you.
- Well I hope you enjoy this episode of the smartest every day.
It has been sponsored by lynda.com which helps to pay for people like Mika who is a video editor.
- Welcome.
- which actually happens to us on the certification of Linda.
Linda is like every day smarter but on very technical subjects.
Even in this particular case, after effects.
I had no idea how to do it.
Micah came along and helped me.
Actually took a set of classes on Linda we found one together right?
- That's true.
- And what was called?
- Echo.
- This was a tutorial that taught me that model persistence vision using After Effects.
But you can learn almost any topic you want.
I've got Excel tutorials, Photoshop tutorials, even how to edit the video as I do with the premiere.
These are not the things that you find will work on YouTube, this is really high quality tutorials.
I've got over 100,000 of them.
So if you want to support the smartest every day,
Please consider going to lynda.com/smarter
You will receive a free 10-day trial which you can cancel at any time.
I wanted to make sure that if you support the smartest every day
You're gonna have a really good experience
This is lynda.com/smarter~~gender=M
You can unsubscribe at any time.
I'm Dustin,
Please enjoy these, feel free to subscribe,
If not, no big deal.
Hope you get smarter every day
Do you have a good idea.
OK Is there any truth to the rumors that you have actually proposed using one of these?
- There is some truth. [Laugh]
As you even finished the project I said to myself,
Hey it wants to be very cool if you might want to write letters here
So I decided this is how I wanted to suggest. With my greetings translator Abdullah Fathi